[Term Entry] Dart List .join() (#4325)
Codecademy/docs: content/dart/concepts/list/terms/join/join.md

---
Title: '.join()' 
Description: 'Concatenates list elements as a string.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Concatenation'
  - 'Dart'
  - 'Lists'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-dart'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`.join()`** method concatenates (combines) list elements as a string including various separators between them dependent on a user's need.

## Syntax

```pseudo
list-name.join('separator')
```
 - `separator`: It separates elements in a list using any characters wrapped with single/double quotes. White spaces can be used but aren't obligatory.

> ## Example 1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example
```

The following code snippet demonstrates the `.join()` method using a separator without white spaces:

```dart
void main() {

  List<String> my_letters = ["Y", "o", "u", " ", "a", "r", "e", " ", "a", "w", "e", "s", "o", "m", "e", "!"];

  String my_message = my_letters.join(""); // No separation whatsoever.
  print(my_message);
} 
```

The output of the above code is:

```shell
You are awesome!
```

> 
> ## Example 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

In the following example, the asterisk is used as a delimiter between elements.

```dart
void main() {

  List<String> languages = ["JavaScript", "Python", "HTML", "CSS"];

  String familiar_with = languages.join(" * "); // Adds an asterisk.
  print(familiar_with);
} 
```

The output of the above code is:

```shell
JavaScript * Python * HTML * CSS
```

> 
> ## Example 3

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

In the following example, the separator used between each element is `or` meaning each task in the list will be separated by the word `or`.

```dart
void main() {

  List<String> chores = ["planting flowers", "vacuuming", "laundry", "ironing", "preparing meals"];

  String planOfDut = chores.join(" or "); // Adds 'or' as a conjunction.
  print(planOfDut); 
}
```

The output of the above code is:

```shell
planting flowers or vacuuming or laundry or ironing or preparing meals
```

> 
> ## Example 4

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
Title: '.join()' 
Description: 'Concatenates list elements as a string.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Concatenation'
  - 'Dart'
  - 'Lists'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-dart'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`.join()`** method concatenates (combines) list elements as a string including various separators between them dependent on a user's need.

>  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
list-name.join('separator')
```

>  - `separator`: The parameter which separates elements in a list by using any characters wrapped with single/double quotes. White spaces can be used but aren't obligatory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

 - `separator`: It separate elements in a list using any characters wrapped with single/double quotes. White spaces can be used but aren't obligatory.

```

## Example 1

> The next snippet depicts an occurrence of erased separators entirely:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following code snippet demonstrates the `.join` method:

```

Author: > It shows a separator with no white spaces.

---
Title: '.join()' 
Description: 'Concatenates list elements as a string.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Concatenation'
  - 'Dart'
  - 'Lists'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-dart'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`.join()`** method concatenates (combines) list elements as a string including various separators between them dependent on a user's need.

## Syntax

```pseudo
list-name.join('separator')
```

 - `separator`: It separate elements in a list using any characters wrapped with single/double quotes. White spaces can be used but aren't obligatory.

## Example 1

The following code snippet demonstrates the `.join` method:

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: > A line like this should be instead of the current one and remember to give the one-line space before and after a code block (Do this throughout the entire entry).

I was supposed to leave a one-break line as you mentioned.

---

> Title: 'join' 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Title: '.join()' 

```

Author: How about this fragment, it says differently?
![metadata](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/assets/157640220/9360a104-7d74-4156-b95b-8221c40594e0)

> Description: 'The join() method concatenates (combines) list elements as a string including various separators between them dependent on a user's need.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Concatenates list elements as a string.'
```

Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Web Development'
Tags:
  - 'Concatenation'
  - 'Dart'
  - 'Lists'
CatalogContent:
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`join()`** method concatenates (*combines*) list elements as a string including various separators between them dependent on a user's need.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **`.join()`** method concatenates (combines) list elements as a string including various separators between them dependent on a user's need.

```

 

## Syntax

```pseudo
list-name.join(separator); // the raw syntax

chores.join(" + "); // a real example
```

> The method refers to its object, in the below case, to the 'chores' variable, which holds list (or array) elements. Inside the brackets '( )' there's a parameter - a separator containing any sign/-s wrapped with single/double quotes. The main role of a separator is to separate elements from one another - allowing for better readability and additional or new meaning to the text. Spaces added to a separator are nonobligatory.

Reviewer 2: As I've removed the example from the syntax, remove the description of it too. You can describe the parameters using the following format - 
```
- `parameter`:  Describe the parameter.
```

Author: I completely do not understand your request. Could you rephrase, please? Rather than suggesting lots of changes, is it possible to write down the reasons behind them?

Author: I thought that there must be also a description of syntax in general, not a specific parameter, because it would not be logical.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

## Example 1

The following block codes are showing an instance of removed spaces between elements, however a default `,` remains:

```dart
List<String> tought_to_read = ["A", "bit", "hard", "to", "read", "innit", "?"];

String try_to_read = tought_to_read.join(); // Spaces between elements are removed.

> print(try_to_read); 

Reviewer 2: The whole code block should be executable, you need to wrap the code inside the main function (Do this for every code block).

Author: All lists and variables are global ones and they don't need another function, except print() here, to be executed.

```

> The output of `.join()`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The output of the above code is:

```
A line like this should be instead of the current one and remember to give the one-line space before and after a code block (Do this throughout the entire entry).

```shell

> A,bit,hard,to,read,innit,?

Reviewer 2: You have not specified the separator, the output will not be the same. Please check it.

```

## Example 2

The next snippet depicts an occurrence of erased separators entirely:

```dart
List<String> my_letters = ["Y", "o", "u", " ", "a", "r", "e", " ", "a", "w", "e", "s", "o", "m", "e", "!"];

String my_message = my_letters.join(); // No separation whatsoever.
print(my_message); 
```
The output of `.join("")`:

```shell
You are awesome!
```

## Example 3

> The below code blocks are presenting an example of using special signs, that can be altered:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, the asterisk is used as a delimiter between elements.

```

```dart
List<String> languages = ["JavaScript", "Python", "HTML", "CSS"];

String familiar_with = languages.join(" * "); // Adds an asterisk.
print(familiar_with); 
```
The output of `.join(" * ")`:

```shell
JavaScript * Python * HTML * CSS
```

## Example 4

> The following fragments are showing an example of a conjunction, which can be also replaced with any:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, the separator used between each element is `or` meaning each task in the list will be separated by the word `or`.

```

```dart
List<String> chores = ["planting flowers", "vacuuming", "laundry", "ironing", "preparing meals"];

String planOfDut = chores.join(" or "); // Adds 'or' as a conjunction.
print(planOfDut); 
```
The output of `.join(" or ")`:

```shell
planting flowers or vacuuming or laundry or ironing or preparing meals
```

## Example 5

> The below snippet is showing another list but combined with a predefined text to make it slightly more complex, plus the output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following snippet contains a list which has a predefined text to make it slightly more complex:

```

---
Title: 'The Title' # Required; the file name should be the same as the title, but lowercase, with dashes instead of spaces, and all punctuation removed
Description: 'A brief description.' # Required; ideally under 150 characters and starts with a present-tense verb (used in search engine results and content previews)
Subjects: # Please only use Subjects in the subjects.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Subject and add it to subjects.md in your PR!
  - 'A subject name'
  - 'A second subject name'
  - 'An nth subject name'
Tags: # Please only use Tags in the tags.md file (https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md). If that list feels insufficient, feel free to create a new Tag and add it to tags.md in your PR!
  - 'A tag'
  - 'A second tag'
  - 'An nth tag'
CatalogContent: # Please use course/path landing page slugs, rather than linking to individual content items. If listing multiple items, please put the most relevant one first
  - 'learn-example-course'
  - 'paths/example-path'

> ---

Reviewer 2: Please fill in the details here. You can find the listed [subjects](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/subjects.md), [tags](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/tags.md), and [catalog content](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/catalog-content.md). Check out the [style guide](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/style-guide.md) if you want.

> # **join**

Reviewer 3: Hi, can you change this to `h2` header? Please read the documentation [Headers Style Guide](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/style-guide.md#headerssections) for further details.

Author: Hello, done.

&nbsp;  
&nbsp;  

> 

Reviewer 2: The entry doesn't need this to be included.

The **`join()`** method concatenates (*combines*) list elements as a string including various separators between them dependent on a user's need.

&nbsp;  

## Syntax

```
list-name.join(separator); // the raw syntax

chores.join(" + "); // a real example

> ```

Reviewer 2: The syntax should be enclosed inside ` ```pseudo` block.

The method refers to its object, in the below case, to the 'chores' variable, which holds list (or array) elements. Inside the brackets '( )' there's a parameter - a separator containing any sign/-s wrapped with single/double quotes. The main role of a separator is, as the name suggests, separating elements from one another - allowing for better readability and additional or new meaning to the text. Spaces added to a separator are nonobligatory.

> &nbsp;  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

## Example No 1

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove Extra space from the entry.

String planOfDut = chores.join(" / "); // adds a slash
print(planOfDut); // returns:  planting flowers / vacuuming / laundry / ironing / preparing meals

String planOfDut = chores.join(" * "); // adds an asterisk
print(planOfDut); // returns:  planting flowers * vacuuming * laundry * ironing * preparing meals

String planOfDut = chores.join(" or "); // adds 'or' as a conjunction (any conjunction can be chosen)
print(planOfDut); // returns:  planting flowers or vacuuming or laundry or ironing or preparing meals

String planOfDut = chores.join(" and again "); // adds 'and again'
print(planOfDut); // returns:  planting flowers and again vacuuming and again laundry and again ironing and again preparing meals

String planOfDut = chores.join(" and maybe tomorrow "); // adds 'and again'
print(planOfDut); // returns:  planting flowers and maybe tomorrow vacuuming and maybe tomorrow laundry and maybe tomorrow ironing and maybe tomorrow preparing meals

String planOfDut = chores.join(" (sigh) "); // removes whitespaces between elements
print(planOfDut); // returns:  planting flowers (sigh) vacuuming (sigh) laundry (sigh) ironing (sigh) preparing meals

```
&nbsp;  

## Example No 2

> 

Reviewer 2: Remove extra space.

The below snippet is showing another list but combined with a predefined text to make it slightly more complex, plus the output:

```dart

List<String> resolutions = ["takeaways", "alcohol", "toxic people", "overtime at work", "binge watching", "cigarettes", "being a couch potato", "comparing to others", "all night parties"]

String wishList = resolutions.join(", No ");

print('In 2024 defenitely I will stick to these simple rules: No ${wishList}.'); // returns: In 2024 defenitely I will stick to these simple rules: No takeaways, No alcohol, No toxic people, No overtime at work, No binge watching, No cigarettes, No being a couch potato, No comparing to others, No all night parties.

```

&nbsp;  

### Tags

```
Concatenation
Dart
Lists

> ```

Reviewer 2: Tags should not be included here. Please follow this [term entry template](https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/term-entry-template.md).
